Farrar, Sarah W
Wed 5/9/2018 2:22 PM

Hello,

 

I am contacting you after reviewing your grades for Spring 2018 to let you know that your academic standing is currently “PROBATION”.

 

Please visit http://www.catalog.gatech.edu/rules/6/ and https://registrar.gatech.edu/info/academic-standing and review this information carefully.

 

Please note that your academic standing is based on your cumulative GPA and/or your term GPA.

 

If you withdrew from the Spring 2018 term and subsequently do not have any new grades since your last enrolled term, then this academic standing carried over from your last enrolled term.

 

For an MS student, the minimum GPA to remain in good standing is 2.7.  Academic Probation for an MS student means that the term and/or cumulative average was 2.0 or below.

 

For a student on Academic Probation, if the following enrolled term's GPA is below 2.7, and the cumulative GPA is below 2.7, that student will be dismissed from Georgia Tech.

 

To confirm, the next term you enroll in, you will need to make at least a 2.7 GPA to stay enrolled in the program.  Students will remain on Academic Probation until their cumulative GPA is above a 2.7.

 

FAQs:

 

Q:  Is it possible to repeat a course, and what are the consequences of doing so?

A:  According to the academic catalog (http://catalog.gatech.edu/rules/9/), “Students may not repeat courses on a letter-grade basis in which the grade of ’B’ or higher has been earned previously.”  In other cases of a repeated course, we will consider the newest grade for purposes of completing a requirement (specialization and/or foundational course); however, you can never have the initial grade replaced or removed from your GPA.  Please also note that if you retake a course, it only can be used to satisfy one requirement, as one course cannot be used to satisfy more than one requirement.  Unfortunately, the grade substitution policy does not apply to graduate students (http://www.catalog.gatech.edu/rules/5/).  Therefore, as a graduate student, if you retake a course, both grades will count in your overall GPA.

 

Q:  If I enroll for Summer 2018, or if I skip Summer 2018 and enroll for Fall 2018, and later withdraw from the entire term, are there any consequences?

A:  If you were to withdraw from the term, and you did not have any new grades that would change your status, then your academic standing from the previous semester would carry over.  Therefore, if you were on academic probation after Spring 2018, and you did not have any grades that would change your status, then this academic standing would carry over to the next term.

 

Again, please ensure you review the information on the websites linked above, and if you have any questions after doing so, you are welcome to contact me directly.  Please be sure to include your full name and GTID number (90X-XX-XXXX) in every email.

 

I wish you the best in the upcoming term!

 

Sincerely,

 

Sarah Farrar, M.Ed.

Academic Advisor II (Last Name N-Sn)

Online Master of Science in Computer Science (OMSCS)

College of Computing

Georgia Institute of Technology

801 Atlantic Drive, CCB 123A

Atlanta, GA  30332

 